docs: describe how to manage embedded plugin registry for VS Code editor (#2539)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_adding-or-removing-vscode-extensions-in-the-embedded-open-vsx-registry-instance.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="adding-or-removing-vscode-extensions-in-the-embedded-open-vsx-registry-instance"]

Author: ```suggestion
[id="adding-or-removing-extensions-in-the-embedded-open-vsx-registry-instance"]
```

> = Adding or removing pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = NO -->] pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = NO -->] VS Code pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = YES -->] pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = YES -->] extensions in the embedded Open VSX registry instance

Author: ```suggestion
= Adding or removing extensions in the embedded Open VSX registry instance
```

> You can add or remove your choice of pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = NO -->] pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = NO -->] VS Code pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = YES -->] pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.Spelling = YES -->] extensions in the embedded Open VSX registry instance that is deployed by {prod-short} to support air-gapped, offline, and proxy-restricted environments.

Reviewer: this could be simpler...

```suggestion
You can add or remove extensions in the embedded Open VSX registry instance deployed by {prod-short} to support offline and proxied environments.
```

This will create a custom build of the Open VSX registry, which can be used in your organization’s workspaces. 

pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.TermsErrors = NO -->]

TIP: To get the latest security fixes after a {prod-short} update, rebuild your container based on the latest tag or SHA.

pass:[<!-- vale RedHat.TermsErrors = YES -->]

.Procedure

include::example$snip_{project-context}-steps-to-add-or-remove-extensions-in-openvsx-sync-json.adoc[]

> ** If the extension is published on link:https://open-vsx.org[open-vsx.org], you can add its extension `id` in the format __<published_by>__.__<unique_identifier>__. You can find the `id` on the extension's listing page on link:https://open-vsx.org[open-vsx.org].

Author: ```suggestion
** If the extension is published on link:https://open-vsx.org[open-vsx.org], you can add its extension `id` in the format __<published_by>__.__<unique_identifier>__. You can find the `id` details on the extension's listing page on link:https://open-vsx.org[open-vsx.org].
```

+
[source,json,subs="+quotes"]
----
    {
        "id": "__<published_by>__.__<unique_identifier>__"
    }
----
+
[TIP]
====
The latest extension version on link:https://open-vsx.org[open-vsx.org] is the default. Alternatively, you can add `"version": "__<extension_version>__"` on a new line to specify a version.
====

** If the extension is only available from link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/VSCode[Microsoft Visual Studio Marketplace], but not link:https://open-vsx.org[Open VSX], you can ask the extension publisher to also publish it on link:https://open-vsx.org[open-vsx.org] according to these link:https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions#how-to-publish-an-extension[instructions], potentially using this link:https://github.com/marketplace/actions/publish-vs-code-extension[GitHub action].
+
[TIP]
====
* If the extension publisher is unavailable or unwilling to publish the extension to link:https://open-vsx.org[open-vsx.org], and if there is no Open VSX equivalent of the extension, consider link:https://github.com/open-vsx/publish-extensions/issues[reporting an issue] to the Open VSX team.

> * If you have a closed-source extension or an extension developed only for internal use in your company, you can add the extension directly from a `.vsix`file by using a URL accessible to your custom plugin registry container:

Author: ```suggestion
* If you have a closed-source extension or an extension developed only for internal use in your company, you can add the extension directly from a `.vsix` file by using a URL accessible to your custom plugin registry container:
```

> * If you have a closed-source extension or an extension developed only for internal use in your company, you can add the extension directly from a `.vsix`file by using a URL accessible to your custom plugin registry container build:

Author: ```suggestion
* If you have a closed-source extension or an extension developed only for internal use in your company, you can add the extension directly from a `.vsix`file by using a URL accessible to your custom plugin registry container:
```

> * If you have a closed-source extension or an extension developed only for internal use in your company, you can add the extension directly from a `.vsix` file that is accessible from a URL while building the plugin registry container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you have a closed-source extension or an extension developed only for internal use in your company, you can add the extension directly from a `.vsix`file by using a URL accessible to your custom plugin registry container build:
```

Author: @nickboldt, I took the liberty to edit your suggestion ^. Is this okay this way?

Reviewer: well, the "build" at the end is redundant but valid, so +1.

+
[source,json,subs="+quotes"]
----
    {
        "id": "__<published_by>__.__<unique_identifier>__",
        "download": "__<url_to_download_vsix_file>__",
        "version": "__<extension_version>__"
    }
----
====
+

> NOTE: Please read the link:https://aka.ms/vsmarketplace-ToU[Terms of Use] for the link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/VSCode[Microsoft Visual Studio Marketplace] before using its resources.

Author: ```suggestion
WARNING: Please read the link:https://aka.ms/vsmarketplace-ToU[Terms of Use] for the link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/VSCode[Microsoft Visual Studio Marketplace] before using its resources.
```

** You can remove the extension by deleting it from the `openvsx-sync.json` file.

. Build the plugin registry container image and publish it to a container registry like link:https://quay.io/[quay.io]:

.. {empty}
+
[subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
$ ./build.sh -o __<username>__ -r quay.io -t custom
----

.. {empty}
+
[subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
$ {docker-cli} push quay.io/__<username/plugin_registry:custom>__
----

> . Edit the `CheCluster` custom resource in the cluster to point to the image (for example, on link:https://quay.io/[quay.io]) and then save the changes:

Author: ```suggestion
. Edit the `CheCluster` custom resource in your organization's cluster to point to the image (for example, on link:https://quay.io/[quay.io]) and then save the changes:
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
spec:
  components:
    pluginRegistry:
      deployment:
        containers:
          - image: quay.io/__<username/plugin_registry:custom>__
      openVSXURL: '' 
----

. Check that the `plugin-registry` pod has restarted and is running.

> . Restart the workspace and check the available extensions in the *Extensions* view of the Microsoft Visual Studio Code - Open Source in the workspace.

Author: ```suggestion
. Restart the workspace and check the available extensions in the *Extensions* view of the workspace IDE.
```
